docs/performance.md, before:

# Performance

The app must load in no more than a few seconds on a 3G connection.

On May 2019, the app hits a 95 Google PageSpeed/Lighthouse score on Desktop with 3G connection.

Here are some tips to keep a high score.

## Code splitting

Webpack helps a lot with [code splitting](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/), so we can lazily load Vue [routes](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/lazy-loading.html) and [components](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-dynamic-async.html#Async-Components).

This is critical when dealing with heavy components such as map:

```js
// no need to import('mapbox-gl-vue') if component is wrapped in some inactive v-if block
// We lazyload Mapbox when component is getting mounted

export default {
  …
  components: {
    Mapbox: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: 'mapbox' */ 'mapbox-gl-vue'),
    …
  },
  …
}
```

Most dependencies are moved into webpack vendor chunk, but we can manually exclude some heavy ones only used in few parts of the app such as map above.

You can also import some dependencies dynamically in any part of your code:

```js
import(/* webpackChunkName: 'somePartOfTheApp' */ 'axios')
  .then(axios => axios.get(…).then(…))
```

Quasar also allows to exclude and include dependencies from vendor chunk in `quasar.conf.js` if needed but webpack chunk names offer more granular control.

In the same quasar file, `build.analyze: true` can be very useful to see all chunks and spot most heavy ones
with [Webpack bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer) once `quasar build` completes.

## Preconnect, prefetch, preload hints

We use these resource hints in `index.html.template` to allow faster app loading.

We optimized webpack config for performance: we load .js, .css, fonts and translations in appropriate order.

Please refer to `quasar.conf.js` where we changed the default webpack config.

Commit message:

perf: inline critical css in landing pages (#22)
* perf: inline critical CSS in Home and Search html

* docs: update README and performance

* perf: ensure critical CSS is properly extracted

using some temporary styles to be closer to styled HTML.
Needed after switch to SVG icons.

* perf: stop extracting critical css from chunks

to keep relying on cache across pages

docs/performance.md, after:

# Performance

The app must load in no more than a few seconds on a 3G connection.

On January 2020, the app hits a 95 Google PageSpeed/Lighthouse score on Desktop with 3G connection.

Here are some tips to keep a high score.

## Pre-rendering

Landing pages are pre-rendered at build time using `prerender-spa-plugin` so we can get the best of both worlds without bothering with server-side rendering:

- Static pages for easy deployment and scaling, minimal maintenance and fast page load
- Vue.js SPA for seamless navigation and user experience

After the HTML is loaded Vue takes it over and hydrates into a full Vue.js SPA.
JS code-splitted chunks are loaded on demand during navigation.

## Code splitting

Webpack helps a lot with [code splitting](https://webpack.js.org/guides/code-splitting/), so we can lazily load Vue [routes](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/advanced/lazy-loading.html) and [components](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/components-dynamic-async.html#Async-Components).

This is critical when dealing with heavy components such as map:

```js
// no need to import('mapbox-gl-vue') if component is wrapped in some inactive v-if block
// We lazyload Mapbox when component is getting mounted

export default {
  …
  components: {
    Mapbox: () => import(/* webpackChunkName: 'mapbox' */ 'mapbox-gl-vue'),
    …
  },
  …
}
```

Most dependencies are moved into webpack vendor chunk, but we can manually exclude some heavy ones only used in few parts of the app such as map above, in `quasar.conf.js`.

You can also import some dependencies dynamically in any part of your code:

```js
import(/* webpackChunkName: 'somePartOfTheApp' */ 'axios')
  .then(axios => axios.get(…).then(…))
```

In `quasar.conf.js`, `build.analyze: true` option can be very useful to see all chunks and spot most heavy ones
with [Webpack bundle analyzer](https://github.com/webpack-contrib/webpack-bundle-analyzer) once `quasar build` completes.

## Preconnect, prefetch, preload hints

We use these resource hints in `index.html.template` to allow faster app loading.

We optimized webpack config for performance by loading .js, .css, fonts and translations in appropriate order.

Please refer to `quasar.conf.js` where we changed the default webpack config.
